[[annex-example-encodings-for-common-tilematrixset-informative]]
[appendix,obligation=informative]
== Example encodings for Common TileMatrixSets

This Annex provides examples of JSON and XML encodings than can be used to define
tile matrix sets.

=== JSON schema for TileMatrixSet

The TileMatrixSet data structure has been transformed into JSON schemas as described
in section <<tilematrixset-encodings>> and provided with this standard as indicated
in <<annex-schema-documents-normative>>. JSON document instances describing
TileMatrixSets (including the ones reproduced in this annex) should validate against
these schemas. The following JSON Schema fragment reproduces the main module of the
TileMatrixSet schema.

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/tileMatrixSet.json[]
----

=== XML schema for TileMatrixSet

The TileMatrixSet data structure has been transformed into XSD schemas as described
in section <<tilematrixset-encodings>> and provided with this standard as indicated
in <<annex-schema-documents-normative>>. XML document instances describing
TileMatrixSets (including the ones reproduced in this annex) should validate against
these schemas. The following XML Schema fragment reproduces the main module of the
TileMatrixSet schema.

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/tileMatrixSet.xsd[]
----

=== Web Mercator Quad

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the WebMercatorQuad tile matrix set (see
<<WebMercatorQuad>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a
tile matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other
TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

One can define an arbitrary number of zoom levels. Here, 25 zoom levels are
illustrated.

==== Web Mercator Quad (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/WebMercatorQuad.json[]
----

==== Web Mercator Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/WebMercatorQuad.xml[]
----

=== World CRS84 Quad

*Variant 1: World CRS84 Quad (recommended)*

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the WorldCRS84Quad tile matrix set (see
<<variant1>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a tile
matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other
TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

One can define an arbitrary number of zoom levels. Here, 23 zoom levels are
illustrated.

==== World CRS84 Quad (recommended, JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/WorldCRS84Quad.json[]
----

==== World CRS84 Quad (recommended, XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/WorldCRS84Quad.xml[]
----

*Variant 2: World EPSG:4326 Quad*

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the WorldCRS84Quad tile matrix based on
EPSG:4326 (see <<variant2>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to
define a tile matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and
including other TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the
same pattern.

One can define an arbitrary number of zoom levels. Here, 23 zoom levels are
illustrated.

==== World EPSG:4326 Quad (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/WGS1984Quad.json[]
----

==== World EPSG:4326 Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/WGS1984Quad.xml[]
----

=== World Mercator WGS84 Quad

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the WorldMercatorQuad tile matrix set (see
<<WorldMercatorWGS84Quad>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to
define a tile matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and
including other TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the
same pattern.

One can define an arbitrary number of zoom levels. Here, 19 zoom levels are
illustrated but resolutions up to 24 are currently available in some mass market
services.

==== World Mercator WGS84 Quad (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/WorldMercatorWGS84Quad.json[]
----

==== World Mercator WGS84 Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/WorldMercatorWGS84Quad.xml[]
----

=== Universal Transverse Mercator WGS84 Quad for zone 31

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the UTM31WGS84Quad tile matrix set (see
<<utm-wgs84>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a tile
matrix set if the zone 31 is required. The other 59 zones in the 60 UTM partition can
be defined similarly. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including
other TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same
pattern.

==== UTM WGS84 Quad for zone 31 (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/UTM31WGS84Quad.json[]
----

==== UTM WGS84 Quad for zone 31 (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/UTM31WGS84Quad.xml[]
----

=== Arctic Universal Polar Stereographic WGS 84 Quad

These are the JSON and XML definition of the UPSArcticWGS84Quad tile matrix set (see
<<aups-wgs84>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a tile
matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other
TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

==== Arctic UPS WGS 84 Quad (JSON enconding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/UPSArcticWGS84Quad.json[]
----

==== Arctic UPS WGS 84 Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/UPSArcticWGS84Quad.xml[]
----

=== Antarctic Universal Polar Stereographic WGS84 Quad

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the UPSAntarcticWGS84Quad tile matrix set
(see <<aups-wgs84-2>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a
tile matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other
TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

==== Antarctic UPS WGS84 Quad (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/UPSAntarcticWGS84Quad.json[]
----

==== Antarctic UPS WGS84 Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/UPSAntarcticWGS84Quad.xml[]
----

=== European ETRS89 Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area Quad

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the EuropeanETRS89_LAEAQuad tile matrix set
(see <<etrs89>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a tile
matrix set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other
TileMatrices for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

==== European ETRS89 Lambert azimuthal equal-area Quad (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/EuropeanETRS89_LAEAQuad.json[]
----

==== European ETRS89 Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area Quad (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/EuropeanETRS89_LAEAQuad.xml[]
----

=== Canadian Lambert Conformal Conic NAD83

These are the JSON and XML definitions of the CanadianNAD83_LCC tile matrix set (see
<<nad83>>) that can be reproduced by other standards needing to define a tile matrix
set. Not all TileMatrix elements need to be included and including other TileMatrices
for more detailed scales is possible if they follow the same pattern.

==== Canadian Lambert Conformal Conic NAD83 (JSON encoding)

[source,json,options="unnumbered"]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/json/examples/tilematrixset/CanadianNAD83_LCC.json[]
----

==== Canadian Lambert Conformal Conic NAD83 (XML encoding)

[source,xml]
----
include::../schemas/tms/2.0/xml/examples/tilematrixset/CanadianNAD83_LCC.xml[]
----
