== Scope

This OGC Two Dimensional Tile Matrix Set (TMS) and Tile Set Matadata Standard
specifies the concepts of a tile matrix set and tile set metadata, prioritizing their
implementation in 2D space. There are also some considerations on how to extend the
TMS concept to nD. This Standard also provides both XML and JSON encodings.

The Tile Matrix Set concept, initially developed as part of the OGC Web Map Tile
Service (WMTS) 1.0 Standard, is now provided as an independent standard that can be
referenced by other standards such as _OGC API - Tiles_, _OGC GeoPackage_, _OGC CDB_,
or the Natural Resources Canada (NRCan)-promoted specification _Map Markup Language
(MapML)_. In addition, the OGC Two Dimensional Tile Matrix Set (TMS) and Tile Set
Matadata Standard ensures that the TMS concept can be used to structure both gridded
as well as vector data in a tiled format.

This Standard has been developed as an independent and reusable standard. However, it
has been developed in parallel with the OGC API - Tiles Standard and to serve its
needs. The OGC API family of standards are being developed to make it easy for anyone
to provide geospatial data to the web. The OGC API Standards define resource-centric
APIs that take advantage of modern web development practices (mainly API definition
documents and JSON encodings). Those Standards can be considered and are being
constructed as "building blocks" that can be used to assemble OGC APIs for accessing
tiles over the web. Throughout this Standard, some OGC API specific comments are
found, that can be ignored for other applications.

This Standard also contains an informative annex for
<<annex-common-tilematrixset-definitions-informative,Common TileMatrixSet definitions
(Informative)>> with a library of proposed tile matrix set definitions for Mercator,
Transverse Mercator, Polar Stereographic, Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area, and Lambert
Conformal Conic.
An additional annex for
<<annex-variable-tilematrixset-definitions-informative,Variable width TileMatrixSet
definitions (Informative)>> provides tile matrix set definitions, utilizing the
variable width capabilities of this standard, which allows for roughly approximate
equal area tiles for Plate Carr√©e projections.

Global identifiers for the Tile Matrix Sets defined in these annexes are registered
with an OGC register of official definitions called the OGC Naming Authority in the
http://www.opengis.net/def/tms[Tile Matrix Set Register].

The Tile Set Metadata provides information about the intended use of a Tile Set as
well as the origin, access constraints, tiling scheme, layers and feature properties
contained within. A tile set is a series of tiles containing data and following a
common tiling scheme. Tile Set Metadata is intended to facilitate retrieval of tile
sets and describes the major characteristics of tile sets without either accessing
the tiles or the content within a tile. The Tile Set Metadata was initially developed
in phase two of the OGC Vector Tiles Pilot (https://www.ogc.org/vectortiles2) and the
results documented in <<ogc19-082r1>> OGC Vector Tiles Pilot 2: Tile Set Metadata
Engineering Report.

NOTE: A previous version of this standard had a JSON-LD encoding of the classes
presented in [tilematrixset-model]. This encoding was abandoned and not included in
this version as no interest was detected.
