== Conformance

This standard defines the concept of tile matrix set, tile matrix set limits and tile
set metadata.

Requirements for the following standardization target types are defined.

* TileMatrixSet: This abstract class defines a data model for tile matrix sets
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/tilematrixset]. This abstract class has a
single conformance class: [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/tilematrixset].
The target is a service or an encoding needing to define TileMatrixSet (e.g., a
future version of WMTS service metadata or an OGC API - Tiles).

* TileMatrixSetLimits: This abstract class defines a data model for tile matrix sets
limits [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/tilematrixsetlimits]. This abstract
class has a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/tilematrixsetlimits]. The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to define TileMatrixSetLimits (e.g., a
future version of WMTS service metadata or an OGC API - Tiles).

* TileSetMetadata: This abstract class defines a data model for tile set metadata in 
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/tilesetmetadata]. This abstract class has a
single conformance class: [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/tilesetmetadata].
The target is a service, a client, or an encoding needing to declare conformity to a
TileMatrixSet or/and a TileMatrixSetLimits (e.g., a future version of WMTS service
metadata or an OGC API - Tiles).
+
NOTE: TileSetMetadata in this standard replaces and extends TileMatrixSetLink in the
version 1.0

* XMLTileMatrixSet: This class defines an encoding in XML for tile matrix sets
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/xml-tilematrixset]. This class has a single
conformance class: [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/xml-tilematrixset]. The
target is a service, a client, or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSet in
XML (e.g., a future version of WMTS service metadata).

* XMLTileMatrixSetLimits: This class defines an encoding in XML for tile matrix sets
limits in  [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/xml-tilematrixsetlimits]. This
class has a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/xml-tilematrixsetlimits]. The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSetLimits in XML
(e.g., a future version of WMTS service metadata or an OGC API - Tiles).

* XMLTileSetMetadata: This class defines an encoding in XML for tile set metadata
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/xml-tilesetmetadata]. This class has a
single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/xml-tilesetmetadata]. The target is a
service, a client or an encoding needing to declare conformity to a TileMatrixSet
or/and a TileMatrixSetLimits using an XML encoding (e.g., a future version of WMTS
service metadata).
+
NOTE: XMLTileSetMetadata in this standard replaces and extends XMLTileMatrixSetLink2d
in the version 1.0

* JSONTileMatrixSet: This class defines an encoding in JSON for tile matrix sets
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/json-tilematrixset]. This class has a single
conformance class: [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/json-tilematrixset]. The
target is a service, a client, or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSet in
JSON (e.g., a future version of an OGC API - Tiles).

* JSONTileMatrixSetLimits: This class defines an encoding in JSON for tile matrix
sets limits in  [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/json-tilematrixsetlimits].
This class has a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/json-tilematrixsetlimits]. The target is a
service, a client ,or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSet in JSON (e.g., a
future version of an OGC API - Tiles).

* JSONTileSetMetadata: This class defines an encoding in JSON for tile set metadata
in  [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/json-tilesetmetadata]. This class has a
single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/json-tilesetmetadata]. The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to declare conformity to a TileMatrixSet
or/and a TileMatrixSetLimits using a JSON encoding (e.g., a future version of an OGC
API - Tiles).
+
NOTE: JSONTileSetMetadata in this standard replaces and extends
JSONTileMatrixSetLink2d in the version 1.0

////
* JSONLDTileMatrixSet: This class defines an encoding in JSON-LD for tile matrix
sets  [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/jsonld-tilematrixset]. This class has
a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/jsonld-tilematrixset] The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSet in JSON that
needs to connect to the semantic web (e.g., a future version of an OGC API - Tiles).

* JSONLDTileMatrixSetLimits: This class defines an encoding in JSON-LD for tile
matrix sets limits
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/jsonld-tilematrixsetlimits]. This class has
a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/jsonld-tilematrixsetlimits] The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to define a TileMatrixSet in JSON that
needs to connect to the semantic web (e.g., a future version of an OGC API - Tiles).
* JSONLDTileSetMetadata: This class defines an encoding in JSON-LD for tile set
metadata [http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/req/jsonld-tilesetmetadata]. This class
has a single conformance class:
[http://www.opengis.net/spec/tms/2.0/conf/jsonld-tilesetmetadata] The target is a
service, a client, or an encoding needing to declare conformity to a TileMatrixSet
or/and a TileMatrixSetLimits using a JSON encoding that needs to connect to the
semantic web (e.g., a future version of an OGC API - Tiles).

NOTE: JSONLDTileSetMetadata in this standard replaces and extends
JSONLDTileMatrixSetLink2d in the version 1.0
////

Conformance with this standard shall be verified using all the relevant tests
specified in <<annex-conformance-class-abstract-test-suite, Conformance Class
Abstract Test Suite (Normative)>> (normative) of this document. The framework,
concepts, and methodology for testing, and the criteria to be achieved to claim
conformance are specified in the OGC Compliance Testing Policies and Procedures and
the OGC Compliance Testing web site footnote:[http://www.opengeospatial.org/cite].

All requirements-classes and conformance-classes described in this document are owned
by the standard(s) identified.
