[[terms-and-definitions]]
== Terms and Definitions

[.boilerplate]
=== {blank}
This document uses the terms defined in <<ogc06-121r9, clause=5.3>>, which is based
on the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2, Rules for the structure and drafting of
International Standards. In particular, the word "shall" (not "must") is the verb
form used to indicate a requirement to be strictly followed to conform to this
standard.

For the purposes of this Standard, the following additional terms and definitions
apply:

=== cell

minimum geometrical spaces delimited by the grid lines of a regular grid.

NOTE: in 2D spaces, cells are often referred as pixels.

NOTE: In this standard, the term _pixel_ is reserved to the individual elements of a
visualization device. Tiles are composed by regular grid cells that can be made
partially coincident with the pixels of a visualization device for display purposes.

=== coordinate reference system

coordinate system that is related to the real world by a datum

[.source]
<<iso19111>>

=== coordinate system

set of mathematical rules for specifying how coordinates are to be assigned to points

[.source]
<<iso19111>>

=== domain

well-defined set

NOTE: A mathematical function may be defined on this set, i.e. in a function stem:[f:
A -> B], stem:[A] is the domain of the function stem:[f].

[.source]
<<iso19103>>


=== grid

network composed of two or more sets of curves in which the members of each set
intersect the members of the other sets in an algorithmic way

NOTE: The curves partition a space into grid cells.

NOTE: A grid can be used to define a tessellation of the space.

[.source]
<<iso19123>>

=== range set

set of all values a function stem:[f] can take as its arguments vary over its domain

[.source]
<<ogc07-036>>>

=== raster tile

tile that contains information in a gridded form. Commonly the values of the grid
represent colors of each cell in the grid for immediate pictorial representation on
visualization devices, but can also be coverage subsets.

NOTE: This concept is used in this standard as a contraposition of "vector tiles".
Many of the existing implementations of WMTS 1.0 produce "raster tiles".

=== regular grid

grid whose grid lines have a constant distance along each grid axis

NOTE: A regular grid can be used to define a regular tessellation of the space.

[.source]
<<ogc09-146r6>>

=== space partitioning

process of dividing a geometric space (usually a Euclidean space) into two or more
disjoint subsets (see also partition of a set). Space partitioning divides a space
into non-overlapping regions. Any point in the space can then be identified to lie in
exactly one of the regions

[.source]
<<ogc19-014r3>>

=== square

regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four 90 degree angles

[.source]
<<ogc19-014r3>>

=== tessellation

partitioning of a space into a set of conterminous subspaces having the same
dimension as the space being partitioned

NOTE: A tessellation composed of congruent regular polygons or polyhedra is a regular
tessellation. One composed of regular, but non-congruent polygons or polyhedra is a
semi-regular tessellation. Otherwise the tessellation is irregular.

NOTE: The expression "same dimension" should be interpreted as "same dimensionality"

[.source]
<<iso19123>>

=== tile

geometric shape with known properties that may or may not be the result of a tiling
(tessellation) process. A tile consists of a single connected "piece" without "holes"
or "lines" (topological disc).

NOTE: From <<ogc19-014r1>>: Core Tiling Conceptual and Logical Models for 2D
Euclidean Space

In the context of a 2D _tile matrix_, a _tile_ is one of the rectangular regions of
space, which can be uniquely identified by an integer row and column, making up the
tile matrix.

In the context of a geospatial data _tile set_, a _tile_ contains data for such a
partition of space as part of an overall set of tiles for that tiled geospatial data.

NOTE: Tiles are useful to efficiently request, transfer, cache, display, store and
process geospatial data for a specific resolution and area of interest, providing
deterministic performance and scalability
for arbitrarily large datasets.

NOTE: Tiles can contain a variety of data types, such as grid-based pictorial
representations (map tiles), coverage subsets (coverage tiles), or feature-based
representations (vector tiles).

=== tile matrix

tiling grid in a given 2D coordinate reference system, associated to a specific scale
and partitioning space into regular conterminous _tiles_, each of which being
assigned a unique identifier

NOTE: Each tile of a tile matrix is uniquely identifiable by a row and a column
integer indices. The number of rows is referred to as the _matrix height_, while the
maximum number of columns is referred to
as the _matrix width_ (the number of columns can vary for different rows in _variable
width tile matrices_).

=== tile matrix set

_tiling scheme_ consisting of a set of _tile matrices_ defined at different scales
covering approximately the same area and having a common coordinate reference system.

=== tile indexing scheme

scheme allowing to uniquely reference a _tile_ in a _tiling scheme_ by the use of a
unique identifier (or set of identifiers), and reversely, which unique identifier (or
unique set of identifiers) corresponds
to a space satisfying the geometric properties of a specific tile

NOTE: Adapted from the indexing aspect of the _tile scheme_ definition of the
<<ogc19-014r1>>: Core Tiling Conceptual and Logical Models for 2D Euclidean Space

=== tile set

a set of _tiles_ resulting from tiling data according to a particular _tiling scheme_

NOTE: From <<ogc19-014r1>>: Core Tiling Conceptual and Logical Models for 2D
Euclidean Space, but adapted to clarify that in the context of this document, a tile
set refers specifically to a set of tiles containing data and following a common
tiling scheme.

=== tiling scheme

scheme that defines how space is partitioned into individual _tiles_, potentially
featuring multiple levels of detail (each tiling at a different granularity to
reflect a different resolution or scale)

A tiling scheme defines the spatial reference system and the geometric properties of
each tile defined by the scheme.
Those properties include which space each tile occupies, i.e. its extent, as well as
a tile coordinate origin if a particular corner of origin convention is established.

NOTE: A tiling scheme can be defined on top of a CRS as well as other spatial
reference systems such as DGGS and other organizations including irregular ones.
In this document, only tiling schemes based on CRSs are supported.

NOTE: From the _tile set scheme_ and _tile scheme_ definitions of <<ogc19-014r1>>:
Core Tiling Conceptual and Logical Models for 2D Euclidean Space, adapted to reflect
the fact that a _tiling scheme_ already
imparts individual tiles with an origin and an extent

=== tile set metadata

additional metadata beyond the common properties defining the _tile set_. Such
metadata could be an abstract, the owner, the author, or other common metadata.

metadata describing common properties defining a _tile set_, layers and styles used
to produce the tile set, the limits of the tile matrix with actual data and common
metadata such as abstract, owner, author, etc.

[.source]
<<ogc19-014r3>>

=== vector tile

tile that contains vector information that has been generalized (simplified) at the
tile scale resolution and clipped by the tile boundaries.

NOTE: The expression "vector tile" has stirred some controversy in the OGC. Actually,
the OGC uses geometrical features to refer to things that are commonly knows as
vectors in many GIS tools. However, in this case, this standard recognizes the
ubiquity of the expression in the sector and assumes that the concept is not
associated to any particular technology or commercial brand.

=== well-known scale set

well-known combination of a coordinate reference system and a set of scales that a
tile matrix set declares support for
